README.md, before:

## Systems Bibliography

This repository contains an annotated bibliography that I've built from my readings in computer systems research.

### Contents

At the top-level, I partition papers among the following categories:

- [Artificial Intelligence](./ai)
- [Cloud Computing](./cloud-computing/)
- [Database Systems](./database-systems/)
- [Machine Learning Systems](./mlsys/)
- [Programming Languages](./programming-languages/)
- [Storage Systems](./storage-systems/)

For a particular paper, the line between some of these categories can be blurry. In such cases I make my best effort to categorize the paper in its logical section.

### Schema

The current schema I use for recording notes about a particular paper is described below.

**Metadata**

This is general metadata about the paper, including:
- Title
- Publication year
- Author(s)

**Big Idea**

This is a short (typically one sentence description) of the primary takeaway from the paper.

**Summary**

This is a summary of the main points of the paper. When I find particular technical details interesting, they will also appear in this section. I try to ensure that the information in this section is a relatively-objective summary of the paper's contents (i.e. it does not contain too much of my own commentary).

**Commentary**

These are my personal thoughts on particular aspects of the paper, recorded as I am reading it. The ideas in this section tend to be much more subjective than those in the _Summary_ section. Furthermore, the contents of this section also tend to be written more hastily and therefore may lack relevant context.

**Questions**

These are questions that I am left with upon completing the paper.

**Further Reading**

These are papers that I make note of while scanning the paper's references. Many times I use the contents of the _Further Reading_ section to inform my decisions on the papers I will read next.

### Staying Organized

Maintaining this bibliography in Markdown has its benefits and drawbacks. I find authoring in Markdown extremely satisfying - it is quick to write, and it renders in a clean, readable format with support for code blocks with syntax highlighting. However, it also means that many features are missing, like built-in support for a table of contents.

In order to stay organized, I wrote a collection of scripts (in [`_src`](./_src/)) that do the following:
- Regenerate the index page for each top-level section of the bibliography

The default target for the top-level `Makefile` invokes a script that runs each of the scripts described above:

```bash
make
```

Run this after the addition of any page to keep all indexes up-to-date.

Commit message:

first paper on cybersecurity added

README.md, after:

## Systems Bibliography

This repository contains an annotated bibliography that I've built from my readings in computer systems research. At this point, the contents of the bibliography extend beyond what is traditionally considered the domain of "computer systems", but I'm keeping the title anyway.

Where possible, I maintain cross-references between entries of the bibliography.

### Contents

At the top-level, I partition papers among the following categories:

- [Artificial Intelligence](./ai)
- [Cloud Computing](./cloud-computing/)
- [Cybersecurity](./cybersecurity)
- [Database Systems](./database-systems/)
- [Machine Learning Systems](./mlsys/)
- [Programming Languages](./programming-languages/)
- [Storage Systems](./storage-systems/)

For a particular paper, the line between some of these categories can be blurry. In such cases I make my best effort to categorize the paper in its logical section.

### Schema

The current schema I use for recording notes about a particular paper is described below.

**Metadata**

This is general metadata about the paper, including:
- Title
- Publication year
- Author(s)

**Big Idea**

This is a short (typically one sentence description) of the primary takeaway from the paper.

**Summary**

This is a summary of the main points of the paper. When I find particular technical details interesting, they will also appear in this section. I try to ensure that the information in this section is a relatively-objective summary of the paper's contents (i.e. it does not contain too much of my own commentary).

**Commentary**

These are my personal thoughts on particular aspects of the paper, recorded as I am reading it. The ideas in this section tend to be much more subjective than those in the _Summary_ section. Furthermore, the contents of this section also tend to be written more hastily and therefore may lack relevant context.

**Questions**

These are questions that I am left with upon completing the paper.

**Further Reading**

These are papers that I make note of while scanning the paper's references. Many times I use the contents of the _Further Reading_ section to inform my decisions on the papers I will read next.

### Staying Organized

Maintaining this bibliography in Markdown has its benefits and drawbacks. I find authoring in Markdown extremely satisfying - it is quick to write, and it renders in a clean, readable format with support for code blocks with syntax highlighting. However, it also means that many features are missing, like built-in support for a table of contents.

In order to stay organized, I wrote a collection of scripts (in [`_src`](./_src/)) that do the following:
- Regenerate the index page for each top-level section of the bibliography

The default target for the top-level `Makefile` invokes a script that runs each of the scripts described above:

```bash
make
```

Run this after the addition of any page to keep all indexes up-to-date.
